initial commit (#1)
Azure-Samples/azure-sdk-for-c-swift: README.md

# How to use Azure SDK for C through Swift

> This is a sample implementation of the [Embedded C SDK](https://aka.ms/embeddedcsdk) which simplifies the creation of connecting Swift devices to Azure IoT services like Azure Iot Hub and DPS (Device Provisioning Service). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a sample implementation over Swift of the [Embedded C SDK](https://aka.ms/embeddedcsdk), which simplifies the connection of Swift applications to Azure IoT services like Azure IoT Hub and Azure Device Provisioning Service (DPS).
```

## Architecture view

> The illustration below shows the Swift sample taking a dependence on the Embedded C SDK which provides libraries used to access all Azure IoT functionalities. 

Reviewer: dependence or dependency?

> This SDK also implements the BYO (bring your own) network stack approach, which means device builders can choose whichever MQTT client, TLS and TCP stack that works better for their target platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This SDK also implements the BYO (bring your own) network stack approach, which means embedded developers can choose whichever MQTT client, TLS and TCP stack that works better for their target platform.
```

Author: My opinion...if it's in Swift on an iOS device, this isn't much of an embedded scenario.

In this case, this sample leverages [Swift MQTT](https://github.com/matsune/swift-mqtt), [Swift NIO-SSL](https://github.com/apple/swift-nio-ssl) and [Swift NIO](https://github.com/apple/swift-nio).

<img src="./resources/architecture.png" width="80%">

 
## Features

- IoT Hub client
- DPS client (Device Provisioning Service) 
- X.509 cert authentication
- Telemetry messages (D2C - Device to Cloud)
- Commands (C2D - Device to Cloud)

## Prerequisites

The following should be completed before getting the sample running.

- Swift development installed (see below)
- Azure Account
- Device previously created in your IoT Hub or DPS Enrollment.

If you're using **WSL** on Windows with **Ubuntu 20.04**, you can follow the steps below to get Swift working. For all other OS's and additional setup steps, please refer to the official [Swift documentation](https://www.swift.org/).

```bash
# Install Swift on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS x64

> # Ewerton Scaboro da Silva, 2022-02-14

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Last updated on 02-14-2022
```

- Clone the sample repo
- Configure the `Sources/demo/config.swift` file with your credentials
- Add your certificates to the `certs` folder (`client.pem` and `client-key.pem`)
- Build and run the demo:

```swift
swift package clean
swift build
swift run demo
```

## Known Issues and Limitations

- Support for MQTT over WebSockets: Swift MQTT (used in this sample) does not support Web Sockets. [CocoaMQTT](https://github.com/emqx/CocoaMQTT) could be an alternative, since it leverages [StarScream](https://github.com/daltoniam/Starscream). [MQTT-nio](https://github.com/adam-fowler/mqtt-nio) might be an alternative as well. 
- This sample leverages Swift NIO (for network) and Swift NIO-SSL (for TLS) are supported by Apple. Swift MQTT client is a 3rd party library, not created nor supported by Apple.
- No SAS Token utilization is implemented on this sample.
- No reconnection and no retries have been implemented. They need to be implemented by the client application.

## Support

The Swift sample is an open source solution, it is **NOT** a Microsoft supported solution or product. For bugs and issues with the codebase please log an issue in this repo.

## Contributing

> If you would like to contribute to the Swift sample, please base your own branch and pull request (PR) off our dev branch.

Reviewer: Is this needed? OR did you copy from one of our other repos?

Author: Pulled from another. A lot of this is from Wellington
